# 02.c

- swipe
  - 挥拳打；扬起巴掌打；挥起（物体）击打 to hit or try to hit sb/sth with your hand or an object by swinging your arm

- come to terms with
  - come to accept a new and painful or difficult event or situation.

finally came to terms with his lack of talent.

I've tried, but I just can't come to terms with Amy, she's totally out of control!

- morgue
  - 停尸房；太平间 a building in which dead bodies are kept before they are buried or cremated(= burned)
  - a room or building usually run by a state or municipal government in which dead bodies are kept until they are autopsied or identified

- municipal
  - 市政的；地方政府的 connected with or belonging to a town, city or district that has its own local government

- very much
  - "**Very much**" is used to put emphasis on the verb that comes after, but it is not commonly used. **Usually used when people are expecting the opposite**, like people think something is dead and you say no it is **very much alive**.

- relentless
  - 不停的；持续强烈的；不减弱的 not stopping or getting less strong

her relentless pursuit of perfection
她对完美的不懈追求

The sun was relentless.
太阳还是那么热。

- disintegration
  - 崩解；瓦解 irreversible breaking into components or fragments

- perdition
  - 永劫不复；堕入地狱 punishment that lasts for ever after death

- resonate
  - 产生共鸣；发出回响 to produce or be filled with a deep clear sound that continues for a long time
  - to produce a response in somebody, especially by reminding that person of something or prompting feelings of support or approval

- annihilate
  - 消灭；歼灭；毁灭 to destroy sb/sth completely
  - 彻底击败 to defeat sb/sth completely

- destroy
  - 摧毁；毁灭；破坏 to damage sth so badly that it no longer exists, works, etc.
  - （因动物有病或不再需要而）杀死，消灭，人道毁灭 to kill an animal deliberately, usually because it is sick or not wanted

- fashion
  - （尤指用手工）制作，使成形，塑造 to make or shape sth, especially with your hands

- trying
  - 令人厌烦的；难对付的 annoying or difficult to deal with

These are trying times for all of us.
对我们所有人来说，这是最难熬的时期。

- stretch
  - something that is difficult to achieve

- charmed
  - extremely lucky or fortunate

- transgression
  - an act or the process of overstepping a limit
  - a crime or any act that violates a law, command, or moral code
  - the committing of acts that violate a law, command, or moral code

- retribution
  - 严惩；惩罚；报应 severe punishment for sth seriously wrong that sb has done

- rack
  - 使痛苦不堪；使受折磨 to make sb suffer great physical or mental pain

- Nirvana
  - 涅槃（超脱一切烦恼的境界） the state of peace and happiness that a person achieves after giving up all personal desires
