# 03.a

- as well as
  - And in addition

- as well as
  - linking noun phrases
  - linking adjectives
  - linking clauses

If you say that something is true of one person or thing **as well as** another, you are emphasizing that it is true not only of the second person or thing but also of the first one.

Women, **as well as** men, have the right to work.

When you use **as well as** to **link adjectives**, you are emphasizing that something has not only the second quality but also the first one.

He is disorganised **as well as** rude.

You can use **as well as** in a similar way to **link clauses**. However, the second clause must be a clause beginning with an -ing form.

She manages the budget **as well as** ordering the equipment.

Be Careful!  
Don't use a finite clause after **as well as**. Don't say, for example, 'She manages the budget as well as she orders the equipment'.

- initiation
  - （常指通过特别仪式的）入会；介绍某人初试某活动（或技艺）the act of sb becoming a member of a group, often with a special ceremony; the act of introducing sb to an activity or skill
  - 开始；创始；发起 the act of starting sth

an initiation ceremony
入会仪式

- prostrate
  - 俯伏；拜倒 to lie on your front with your face looking downwards, especially as an act of worship
  - 使一筹莫展；使无能为力to make sb feel weak, shocked, and unable to do anything

- rite
  - （宗教等的）仪式，典礼 a ceremony performed by a particular group of people, often for religious purposes

- image
  - 形象；印象；声誉 the impression that a person, an organization or a product, etc. gives to the public
  - （心目中的）形象，印象 **a mental picture that you have** of what sb/sth is like or looks like
  - 画像；雕像；塑像 a copy of sb/sth in the form of a picture or statue

- come down to
  - To amount to something (usually the most important or crucial aspect of something). In this usage, "to" is typically followed by a thing or idea.
  - To visit some place, often a location that is lower or farther south than one's starting point. In this usage, "to" is followed by a place.

It's a great offer, but my decision comes down to salary, to be honest with you.

Our Canadian relatives are coming down to our house in California for a few days.

- spell out
  - To make something more comprehensible; to present the details of something to make it clear to understand. A noun or pronoun can be used between "spell" and "out."

Sorry, but could you spell out your exact plan for us? It doesn't really seem to make sense.

Mandy and I are going to get dinner and then a movie. It's a date—do I have to spell it out for you?

- discipline
  - 训练方法 **a method of training your mind or body** or of controlling your behaviour; an area of activity where this is necessary

- adherent
  - （政党、思想的）拥护者，追随者，信徒 a person who supports a political party or set of ideas

- ordain
  - 授予圣秩（品）；授予圣职 to make sb a priest, minister or rabbi
  - 主宰；掌握；规定 to order or command sth; to decide sth in advance

He was ordained (as) a priest last year.
他去年被授以神父圣职。

Fate had ordained that they would never meet again.
他们命里注定永远不会再相见。

- indicate
  - 暗示；间接提及；示意 to mention sth, especially in an indirect way
  - 指示；指出 to make sb notice sb/sth, especially by pointing or moving your head

- precept
  - （思想、行为的）准则，规范 a rule about how to behave or what to think

- prohibition
  - （尤指通过法律的）禁止，阻止 the act of stopping sth being done or used, especially by law
  - 禁令；禁律 **a law or a rule** that stops sth being done or used

- meditative
  - 深思的；陷入沉思的 thinking very deeply; involving deep thought

- go hand in hand
  - COMMON If two things **go hand in hand**, they are closely connected and cannot be considered separately from each other.
  - Note: You can also say that one thing **goes hand in hand with** another thing.

A bad economic situation and rising crime usually **go hand in hand**.

Poverty tends to **go hand in hand with** disease, and raising people’s incomes usually helps to improve their health.

- well-established
  - 地位稳固的；树立起声誉的；得到确认的 having a respected position, because of being successful, etc. over a long period

a well-established firm
久享盛誉的商行

He is now well established in his career.
他现在已经在事业上稳住了根基。

- doctrinal
  - 教义的；学说的；主义的 relating to a doctrine or doctrines

- doctrine
  - 教义；主义；学说；信条 **a belief** or **set of beliefs** held and taught by a Church, a political party, etc.

Christian doctrine
基督教教义

- ground
  - （兴趣、知识或思想的）范围，领域 an area of interest, knowledge or ideas

- embodiment
  - （体现一种思想或品质的）典型，化身 a person or thing that represents or is **a typical example of an idea or a quality** 这是一种“具象化”

He is the embodiment of the young successful businessman.
他是成功青年企业家的典型。

- prosperous
  - likely to be successful or bring a good result

- ministry
  - 神职；牧师职位；神职任期 the work and duties of a minister in the Church; **the period of time** spent working as a minister in the Church

- foothold
  - 立足处（攀登时足可踩的缝、洞、树枝等） a crack, hole or branch where your foot can be safely supported when climbing
  - （可以此发展或取得成功的）稳固地位，立足点a strong position in a business, profession, etc. from which sb can make progress and achieve success

The company is eager to gain a foothold in Europe.
这家公司急于在欧洲取得一席之地。

- verge
  - （路边的）小草地，绿地 a piece of grass at the edge of a path, road, etc.

on/to the verge of sth/of doing sth
濒于；接近于；行将very near to the moment when sb does sth or sth happens

- renewed
  - resuming after an interruption, usually with more intensity or energy

- preach
  - 布道，讲道（尤指教堂中礼拜时） to give a religious talk in a public place, especially in a church during a service
  - 宣传，宣扬，宣讲（教义、生活方式、体制等） to tell people about a particular religion, way of life, system, etc. in order to persuade them to accept it
  - 说教 to give sb advice on moral standards, behaviour, etc., especially in a way that they find annoying or boring

- attribute
  - 把…归因于；认为…是由于 to say or believe that sth is the result of a particular thing
  - 认为是…所为（或说、写、作） to say or believe that sb is responsible for doing sth, especially for saying, writing or painting sth

She attributes her success to hard work and a little luck.
她认为她的成功来自勤劳和一点运气。

The committee refused to attribute blame without further information.
如果没有进一步的情况，委员会拒绝归罪于任何人。

This play is usually attributed to Shakespeare.
人们通常认为这出戏剧是莎士比亚所写。

- mahayana
  - 大乘佛教（佛教两个主要派别之一） one of the two major forms of Buddhism. the branch of Buddhism that includes Tibetan, Chinese, and Zen Buddhism, developed around 1. It stresses **compassion for all sentient beings and universal salvation**.

- arhat
  - 阿罗汉 a Buddhist who has reached the stage of enlightenment

- Hinayana
  - 小乘佛教 a form of Buddhism characterized by adherence to the early Pali scriptures and the nontheistic pursuit of purification through Nirvana. It is found mainly in Sri Lanka and Southeast Asia.

- garb
  - （尤指某类人穿的特定）服装，衣服；奇装异服 clothes, especially unusual clothes or those worn by a particular type of person

- enshrine
  - 把（法律、权利等）奉为神圣；把…庄严地载入 to make a law, right, etc. respected or official, especially by stating it in an important written document

- venerate
  - 敬重；崇敬；敬仰 to have and show a lot of respect for sb/sth, especially sb/sth that is considered to be holy or very important

- plethora
  - 过多；过量；过剩 an amount that is greater than is needed or can be used

- polytheistic
  - believing in or worshiping multiple gods

- pantheon
  - 万神庙 a temple (= religious building) built in honour of all the gods of a nation
  - 先贤祠；伟人祠 a building in which famous dead people of a nation are buried or honoured

- denomination
  - （基督教）教派，宗派 a branch of the Christian Church

- assume
  - 呈现（外观、样子）；显露（特征） to begin to have a particular quality or appearance

This matter has assumed considerable importance.
这件事看来相当重要。

In the story the god assumes the form of an eagle.
在这个故事中神以鹰的形象出现。

- by and large
  - 大体上；总的来说 used for referring to something in a very general way
  - For the most part; generally

**By and large**, the play was a success.

- heresy
  - 宗教异端；信奉邪说 a belief or an opinion that is against the principles of a particular religion; the fact of holding such beliefs
  - 离经叛道的信念（或观点） a belief or an opinion that disagrees strongly with what most people believe

- overt
  - 公开的；明显的；不隐瞒的 done in an open way and not secretly

There was little overt support for the project.
对这个项目公开表示支持的很少。

- deviant
  - 不正常的；异常的；偏离常轨的 different from what most people consider to be normal and acceptable

- underhand
  - 秘密的；阴险的；狡诈的；卑鄙的 done secretively and dishonestly or with the intention to deceive or cheat somebody

- by all means
  - Certainly; absolutely.
  - In any way possible, regardless of risk or expense.

**By all means**, come to our party if you end up being free on Saturday night!

There will be a lot of people at this event, but we need to court that one big investor **by all means**.

- blatant
  - 明目张胆的；公然的 done in an obvious and open way without caring if people are shocked

- foul someone or something up
  - to cause disorder and confusion for someone or something; to tangle up someone or something; to mess someone or something up

The threat of a hurricane really fouled up our vacation plans!

Boy, you really fouled up this report, and I don't have time to fix it right now.

- tenet
  - 原则；信条；教义 one of the principles or beliefs that a theory or larger set of beliefs is based on

- trifle
  - to treat someone or something as unimportant

- ordinance
  - 法令；条例；指示；训令 an order or a rule made by a government or sb in a position of authority

- fervent
  - 热情的；热忱的；热诚的；热烈的 having or showing very strong and sincere feelings about sth

- breach
  - 在…上打开缺口 to make a hole in a wall, fence, etc. so that sb/sth can go through it
  - 违反；违背 to not keep to an agreement or not keep a promise

> 这个词与break很像

- standing water
  - 积水；静止水 stagnant water

- lingering
  - 缓慢消失的；迟迟不去的slow to end or disappear

- inaction
  - 无行动；不采取措施 lack of action; the state of doing nothing about a situation or a problem

- regimen
  - 生活规则；养生之道；养生法a set of rules about food and exercise or medical treatment that you follow in order to stay healthy or to improve your health






