# 03.b

- have a good command of (something)
  - To be knowledgeable about or skilled in a particular area or thing.
  - to know something well; Have the ability to use or control; have mastery of

If you don't have a good command of the course material, then you won't do well on the exam.

Bill has a good command of French.

Jane has a good command of economic theory.

- prowess
  - 非凡的技能；高超的技艺；造诣 great skill at doing sth

- potent
  - 有强效的；有力的；烈性的；影响身心的having a strong effect on your body or mind
  - 强大的；强有力的 powerful

a potent drug
猛药

a potent argument
有力的论据

a potent force
强大的力量

- do away with something
  - to get rid of something.

The company had to **do away with** free lunches(午餐) in order to save money.

You can **do away with** your walking boot now—the X-rays show that your foot is completely healed.

- do away with (oneself)
  - Euph. to commit suicide.

The doctor was afraid that Betty would do away with herself. I wouldn't think of doing away with myself.

- hard and fast
  - 严格规定的 fixed and not able to be changed

- heyday
  - 最为强大（或成功、繁荣）的时期the time when sb/sth had most power or success, or was most popular

In its heyday , the company ran trains every fifteen minutes.
公司在最兴隆时期每隔十五分钟就开出一列火车。

- surge
  - （强烈感情的）突发 a sudden increase of a strong feeling

She felt a sudden surge of anger.
她突然感觉怒火中烧。

a surge of excitement
一阵兴奋

- get on
  - become older

- echo
  - 回响；回声；回音 the reflecting of sound off a wall or inside a confined space so that a noise appears to be repeated; a sound that is reflected back in this way

- attune
  - to adjust or accustom something to be receptive or responsive to something else

- trying
  - placing great strain(压力) on somebody's patience, composure, or good nature, and often physically exhausting as a result
  - difficult to deal with in a way that makes you annoyed or tired

These are trying times for all of us.
对我们所有人来说，这是最难熬的时期。

- setting
  - 环境；背景 a set of surroundings; the place at which sth happens
  - （戏剧、小说等的）情节背景 the place and time at which the action of a play, novel, etc. takes place

- saddle (one) with (someone or something)
  - To force one to deal with someone or something that proves to be a great burden.

Why do you always saddle yourself with so much school work? Take fewer classes and enjoy yourself a little!

The economic crash has saddled millions of people with debts they'll likely never pay off.

- physical body
  - alternative names for the body of a human being;

- infirm
  - （长期）病弱的；年老体弱的ill/sick and weak, especially over a long period or as a result of being old

- beguiling
  - having the power to gain people's interest or devotion
  - a **beguiling** person or thing seems attractive and interesting, but may be dangerous

- Material world
  - the phenomena of the physical world, and also to life in general

- swift
  - happening or done very quickly or suddenly
  - moving quickly

- stray
  - 迷路；偏离；走失 to move away from the place where you should be, without intending to

- ground
  - 充分的理由；根据a good or true reason for saying, doing or believing sth

You have no grounds for complaint.
你没有理由抱怨。

What were his grounds for wanting a divorce?
他要离婚的理由是什么？

- get on in years
  - To be advanced or advancing in age; to be old or aging.

I might be getting on in years, but I'm no fool when it comes to technology!

Your grandfather's getting on in years, so you may need to speak a bit more loudly around him.

- divulge
  - 泄露，透露（秘密） to give sb information that is supposed to be secret

Police refused to divulge the identity of the suspect.
警方拒绝透露嫌疑犯的身份。

- maze
  - 迷宫 a system of paths separated by walls or hedges built in a park or garden, that is designed so that it is difficult to find your way through
  - 纷繁复杂的规则；复杂难懂的细节 a large number of complicated rules or details that are difficult to understand

We got lost in the maze.
我们在迷宫里迷失了方向。

The building is a maze of corridors.
这座建筑长廊交错，简直就是一座迷宫。

a maze of regulations
一大堆纷繁复杂的规章制度

- on account of (someone or something)
  - Because of or for the benefit of someone or something.

Please, don't stop the class **on account of** me. I'll just observe from the back.

**On account of** the rain, we'll have to postpone the game until next week.

- discernment
  - 识别能力；洞察力 the ability to show good judgement about the quality of sb/sth

- faucet
  - 龙头；旋塞 a device that controls the flow of water from a pipe

- i.e.
  - 也就是，亦即（源自拉丁文 id est）used to explain exactly what the previous thing that you have mentioned means (from Latin id est)

- perfection
  - 完善；完美 the state of being perfect
  - 最后加工；完美；圆满 the act of making sth perfect by doing the final improvements

- swindle
  - 诈骗；骗取 to cheat sb in order to get sth, especially money, from them

- blanket
  - 毯子；毛毯 a large cover, often made of wool, used especially on beds to keep people warm
  - 厚层；厚的覆盖层 a thick layer or covering of sth

- static electricity
  - 静电 electricity that does not flow in a current but is found in some objects when they rub together and can give an electric shock
  - a stationary electric charge that builds up on an insulated object such as a capacitor or a thundercloud

- be at (one's) disposal
  - To be ready and available to help or serve one.

If you need anything during your stay, our staff is at your disposal.

Welcome to the neighborhood! I'm at your disposal, if you need help with anything.

- take issue
  - To strongly disagree with or take offense at something.
  - To take an opposing point of view; disagree.

If that's what you're saying, then yes, I take issue.

If you **take issue** with me or my methods, feel free to hire someone else.

- on the merits
  - According to or based on facts or qualities essential to a person or situation, as opposed to circumstantial or technical details. Usually used in reference to a decision by a judge in a legal case.

Who supports it doesn't matter; we have to consider the idea solely on its merits。

- mundane
  - 单调的；平凡的 not interesting or exciting

- bottoms out
  - 降到最低点

- out of the blue
  - Completely unexpectedly.

She seemed so surprised by the news that it must have come out of the blue.

- scant
  - 一丁点的；微小的；不足的；欠缺的 hardly any; not very much and not as much as there should be

- nobody
  - somebody regarded as unimportant or insignificant

She rose from being a nobody to become a superstar.
她从无名小辈一跃成为超级明星。

- throw (one's) hat in(to) the ring
  - To announce that one is going to be competing with others, especially in a political election.

I'm thinking about throwing my hat in the ring for class president!

As has been widely predicted, yesterday the governor threw his hat into the ring for the presidential election next year.
