# 03.e

- as for
  - used to **refer back to** a topic and **introduce further information** about it or comment on it
  - used for **introducing a subject** that is related to what you have just been talking about

> as for给我的印象就是“给出更多的信息”或者是“进一步介绍新的事物”

- serene
  - 平静的；宁静的；安详的 calm and peaceful
  - without worry, stress, or disturbance
  - calm, or peaceful

a lake, still and serene in the sunlight
阳光下宁静安谧的湖水

- pleasant
  - enjoyable or attractive in a way that makes you feel pleased and satisfied
  - **a pleasant person** is friendly and behaves correctly in social situations
  - **pleasant weather** is dry and neither very hot nor very cold

- in light of
  - if you do something **in light of** a certain thing, you do it after considering the thing

- in (the) light of (something)
  - Considering (something); given (something). Typically refers to a new revelation or piece of information that affects some situation.
  - Fig. because of certain knowledge now in hand; considering something. (As if knowledge or information shed light on something.)

In light of this new evidence, we are reopening the investigation.

In the light of the severe weather, graduation will be postponed.

In light of what you have told us, I think we must abandon the project.

In light of the clerk's rudeness, we didn't return to that shop.

- keep at
  - to persevere with something, especially something difficult or strenuous

This is a process you are going to have to discover on your own, if you **keep at** it you will develop a knack for it.
这是你将必须自己去开发的过程，如果你坚持下去你定会发现其中的秘诀。

- subscribe to
  - Literally, to sign up to receive something on a regular basis; to have a subscription to something, such as a newspaper, magazine, monthly product, etc. 这里强调对于“实际物体（报纸、杂志）”的“订购”
  - To very strongly support, approve of, or agree with an opinion or policy. 这里强调对于“观念”的认同

You should subscribe to our newsletter if you're interested in our other projects.

I subscribed to the local newspaper years ago, but I barely read it anymore.

I no longer subscribe to the all the same beliefs as my parents, but that doesn't mean we don't share some values.

Bill and his wife subscribe to the notion that disciplining children in any way, shape, or form will harm their emotional development.

- to the benefit of
  - 对...有利

Negotiation discussion held with the intent of reaching an agreement usually to the benefit of two or more parties.
谈判通常为两方或多方的利益达成协议所进行的讨论。

Reform programs tend to work to the benefit of men than to the benefit of women.
许多改革方案著重于男性利益的开发，而非女性。

- unwittingly
  - 没有意识到地 without being aware of what you are doing or the situation that you are involved in

She had broken the law unwittingly, but still she had broken it.
她并非故意犯法，但毕竟是犯了法。

- in (one's) presence
  - With one present and watching or supervising.

You'll need to fill this form out in a notary's presence.

- notary
  - 公证人 a person, especially a lawyer, with official authority to be a witness when sb signs a document and to make this document valid in law

- presence
  - 在场；出席 the fact of being in a particular place

He hardly seemed to notice my presence.
他似乎没有注意到我在场。

Her presence during the crisis had a calming effect.
危难时有她在，对大家的心情有稳定作用。

Your presence is requested at the meeting.
务请出席会议。

- on grounds of
  - 出于……的原因

- plagiarize
  - 剽窃；抄袭 to copy another person's ideas, words or work and pretend that they are your own

- refrain
  - 克制；节制；避免to stop yourself from doing sth, especially sth that you want to do

- give of
  - to devote or dedicate your time or energy to something


257