# 04.c

- anointment
  - An anointment is the application of oil in a religious ceremony. You don't anoint your pasta with olive oil, anointment is usually performed by a religious leader on a person being blessed.

You're most likely to come across the noun anointment in **a religious text or discussion**. It's a kind of ritual that takes place in many different religions, and it always involves a special substance — most often oil, water, or milk — applied to a person's forehead or another part of the body. Sometimes kings or priests go through an anointment ceremony, for example. 

- anoint
  - to make someone holy in a religious ceremony by putting holy water or oil on them
  - to make someone king or queen, especially as part of a religious ceremony

- pasta
  - 意大利面食 an Italian food made from flour, water and sometimes eggs, formed into different shapes and usually served with a sauce. It is hard when dry and soft when cooked.

- ritual
  - A ritual is a ceremony or action performed in a customary way. Your family might have a Saturday night ritual of eating a big spaghetti dinner and then taking a long walk to the ice cream shop.
  - 程序；仪规；礼节；（尤指）宗教仪式 a series of actions that are always performed in the same way, especially as part of a religious ceremony
  - 习惯；老规矩 something that is done regularly and always in the same way

As an adjective, ritual means "conforming to religious rites," which are the sacred, customary ways of celebrating a religion or culture. Different communities have different ritual practices, like meditation in Buddhism, or baptism in Christianity. We also call the ceremony itself a ritual. Although it comes from religious ceremonies, ritual can also be used for any time-honored tradition, like the Superbowl, or Mardi Gras, or Sunday morning pancake breakfast.

- rite
  - （宗教等的）仪式，典礼 a ceremony performed by a particular group of people, often for religious purposes
  - A rite is a ceremony or event that leads to a new phase of life, like high school graduation or a bat mitzvah（戒律；成人礼）.

funeral rites
丧葬仪式

initiation rites(= performed when a new member joins a secret society)
（秘密团体的）入会仪式

- ceremony
  - 典礼；仪式 a public or religious occasion that includes a series of formal or traditional actions

- esoteric
  - 只有内行才懂的；难领略的 likely to be understood or enjoyed by only a few people with a special knowledge or interest

- monastic
  - 僧侣的；隐修院的；修道院的 connected with monks or monasteries

Being monastic might sound like a strange or a hard thing to be, but you can compare it to student life very well. Both monks and students spend a lot of time studying books. Monks like quiet, and students need quiet to get work done. Monks live in a community devoted to religion, and students study in a community devoted to learning. The stereotypical party lifestyle of a student isn't very monastic though.

- veiled
  - 戴面纱的；蒙面的 wearing a veil
  - 含蓄的；掩饰的 not expressed directly or clearly because you do not want your meaning to be obvious

a mysterious veiled woman
戴面纱的神秘女人

a thinly veiled threat
几乎不加掩饰的威胁

She made a veiled reference to his past mistakes.
她含蓄地提到了他过去所犯的错误。

- high-profile
  - 经常出镜（或见报）的 receiving or involving a lot of attention and discussion on television, in newspapers, etc.

a high-profile campaign
广受关注的运动

- well-to-do
  - 有钱的；富有的；富裕的 having a lot of money

a well-to-do family
富裕家庭

They're very well-to-do.
他们很阔绰。

- down the road
  - in the future

If you don't do your homework now, it'll be a problem down the road when you don't know the material for the exam.

I do want to get married, but down the road, not any time soon.

- authentic
  - 真正的；真品的；真迹的 known to be real and genuine and not a copy

The adjective authentic describes something that is real or genuine and not counterfeit. Be careful when you are buying jewelry or watches. If you are going to buy a diamond ring, you want an authentic diamond and not glass. That would be authentic glass but a fake diamond!

In addition to describing something real, the adjective authentic describes something reliable, based on fact, and believable.

I don't know if the painting is authentic.
我不知道这幅画是不是真迹。

an authentic account of life in the desert
对沙漠生活的真实描述

- keeper
  - A keeper is someone who is responsible for something, especially a property or a lot of animals. A keeper might take care of a big summer house during the winter months.

- on (one's) mind
  - In one's thoughts.

Jennie's been on my mind lately—do you know how she is?

You look worried—what's on your mind?

- be up to (something)
  - To be scheming (something) or engaging in mischievous behavior.
  - To be able or willing to (do something).

I think those two are up to something—they've been acting squirrelly all morning.

She's still recovering from her surgery and isn't really up to having visitors.

- surgery
  - 外科手术；外科学 medical treatment of injuries or diseases that involves cutting open a person's body and often removing or replacing some parts; the branch of medicine connected with this treatment

- Incentive
  - 激励；刺激；鼓励 something that encourages you to do sth

tax incentives to encourage savings
鼓励储蓄的税收措施

There is no incentive for people to save fuel.
没有鼓励人们节约燃料的措施。

- defile
  - 弄脏；玷污；糟蹋；亵渎 to make sth dirty or no longer pure, especially sth that people consider important or holy

Many victims of burglary feel their homes have been defiled.
许多家门被撬的人都感到自己的家被玷污了。

When you defile something, you make it dirty or make it lose its purity. Think of fresh new snow covered in cigarette butts. The butts defile the winter wonderland.

For something to be defiled, it first must be pure. You can't defile a garbage dump or a messy room. Defile is often used in a religious context.

- fall prey to (someone or something)
  - To have one's vulnerability exploited by someone or something, leading to harm, destruction, or manipulation; to become a victim of someone or something.

It is unfortunately very common for elderly people to fall prey to online scam（欺诈；诈财骗局） artists, who take advantage of their lack of technological know-how.

Many major cities have fallen prey to terrorist activity in recent months.

- lest
  - used to introduce the reason for the particular emotion mentioned

- disservice
  - 帮倒忙 an act intended to help that turns out badly

do sb a disservice
损害；伤害；危害；中伤 to do sth that harms sb and the opinion that other people have of them

- con
  - （尤指为钱财或使人为自己做某事而）欺骗，哄骗，诈骗 to trick sb, especially in order to get money from them or persuade them to do sth for you 这与“坑”字的发音有几分相似

I was conned into buying a useless car.
我上当受骗买了辆不能用的汽车。

They had been conned out of £100 000.
他们被骗走了 10 万英镑。

He conned his way into the job using false references.
他用假的推荐信骗取了那份工作。

- jade
  - 玉；翡翠；碧玉 a hard stone that is usually green and is used in making jewellery and decorative objects

- white jade
  - 白玉

- committed
  - 尽心尽力的；坚信的；坚定的 willing to work hard and give your time and energy to sth; believing strongly in sth

- paranormal
  - 超自然的；无法用科学解释的；超常的 that cannot be explained by science or reason and that seems to involve mysterious forces

paranormal powers/events/forces

This book is about people who claim to have paranormal abilities such as ESP and mind reading.

- toe
  - 脚趾 one of the five small parts that stick out from the foot

- assistance
  - 帮助；援助；支持 help or support

technical/economic/military assistance
技术╱经济╱军事援助

financial assistance for people on low incomes
给低收入者的经济援助

The company provides advice and assistance in finding work.
公司提供就业咨询和帮助。

- indicate
  - to show, point, or make clear in another way

- homage
  - 敬辞；表示敬意的举动 something that is said or done to show respect for sb

The kings of France paid homage to no one.
法国国王不向任何人致敬。

He describes his book as ‘a homage to my father’.
他说他的书是“献给父亲”的。

They stood in silent homage around the grave.
他们恭敬地站在坟墓周围致默哀礼。

- bygone
  - 很久以前的；以往的happening or existing a long time ago

a bygone age/era
一个过去的时代╱历史时期

- feature
  - 起重要作用；占重要地位 to have an important part in sth

Olive oil and garlic feature prominently in his recipes.
橄榄油和大蒜在他的食谱中是重要的材料。

- incense
  - 香（尤指宗教礼仪用的） a substance that produces a pleasant smell when you burn it, used particularly in religious ceremonies

- all-powerful
  - 有无上权力的；拥有全权的 having complete power

the all-powerful secret police
权力无限的秘密警察

- go in for
  - to enjoy a particular activity

- protective
  - 保护的；防护的 providing or intended to provide protection

Workers should wear full protective clothing .
工人应该穿着全套防护服。

a protective layer of varnish
清漆防护层

- strike
  - 突然想到；一下子想起；猛地意识到 to come into sb's mind suddenly
  - 给（某人以…）印象；让（某人）觉得 to give sb a particular impression

An awful thought has just struck me.
刚才我脑子里突然闪过一个可怕的念头。

It suddenly struck me how we could improve the situation.
我一下子明白我们如何能改善局面了

His reaction struck me as odd.
他的反应令我诧异。

How does the idea strike you?
你觉得这个主意怎么样？

She strikes me as a very efficient person.
在我眼里，她是个很干练的人。

It strikes me that nobody is really in favour of the changes.
我觉得没人真正赞成这些变动。

- pretence
  - 假象；伪装；虚伪的表现 the act of behaving in a particular way, in order to make other people believe sth that is not true
  - 妄称；自称；标榜 a claim that you have a particular quality or skill
