# 04.d

- mandorla
  - an oval area or panel in painting or sculpture, e.g. the area of light surrounding a representation of Jesus Christ after the Resurrection

- canon
  - 原则；准则；标准 a generally accepted rule, standard or principle by which sth is judged

- cannon
  - （通常装有轮子并发射铁弹或石弹的旧式）大炮 an old type of large heavy gun, usually on wheels, that fires solid metal or stone balls

- run-of-the-mill
  - 平凡的；普通的；乏味的 ordinary, with no special or interesting features

- ground
  - 充分的理由；根据 a good or true reason for saying, doing or believing sth

- plagiarize
  - 剽窃；抄袭 to copy another person's ideas, words or work and pretend that they are your own

He was accused of plagiarizing his colleague's results.
他被指控剽窃同事的成果。

- a handful of
  - 少量的；少数的

- inquire
  - to ask for information

Shall I inquire about the price of tickets?

She called to inquire when her car would be ready.

- legitimate
  - 正当合理的；合情合理的 for which there is a fair and acceptable reason

- excretory
  - 排泄的；有排泄功能的 connected with getting rid of waste matter from the body

the excretory organs
排泄器官

- angelic
  - 善良的；美丽的；天使般的 good, kind or beautiful; like an angel

an angelic smile
天使般的微笑

- cherub
  - 小天使（常被绘为有翅膀的胖男孩） a type of angel , shown as a small, fat, usually male, child with wings
  - 可爱的小孩；乖小孩 a pretty child; a child who behaves well

- rascal
  - 无赖；坏蛋；淘气鬼 a person, especially a child or man, who shows a lack of respect for other people and enjoys playing tricks on them

- mudra
  - 手印 a symbolic position in which the hands are held in Hindu dancing and ritual

- abdominal
  - 腹部的relating to or connected with the abdomen

- perineum
  - 会阴 the area between the anus and the scrotum or vulva

- allegedly
  - 据说；据传 if someone **allegedly** does something, another person says that they have done it, even though this has not been proved

- doctrinal
  - 教义的；学说的；主义的 relating to a doctrine or doctrines

the doctrinal position of the English church
英格兰教会教义的立场

a rigidly doctrinal approach
硬搬教条的方法

- pedigree
  - 动物血统记录；动物纯种系谱 knowledge of or an official record of the animals from which an animal has been bred
  - 家谱；门第；世系；起源 a person's family history or the background of sth, especially when this is impressive

She was proud of her long pedigree.
她为自己源远流长的家世而自豪。

The product has a pedigree going back to the last century.
这项产品的渊源可追溯到上个世纪。

- contour
  - 外形；轮廓 the outer edges of sth; the outline of its shape or form

The road follows the natural contours of the coastline.
这条路沿着海岸线的自然轮廓延伸。（是个可数名词）

She traced the contours of his face with her finger.
她用手指摸遍了他脸部的轮廓。（是个可数名词）

- simply
  - （强调某说法）确实，简直 used to emphasize a statement

The view is simply wonderful!
景色美极了！

That is simply not true!
那根本不是真的！

I haven't seen her for simply ages.
我真是好久没见她了。

- incorruptible
  - 不会腐蚀的；不可摧毁的 that cannot decay or be destroyed

- secular
  - 现世的；世俗的；非宗教的 not connected with spiritual or religious matters
  - 在俗的 living among ordinary people rather than in a religious community

Secular things are not religious. Anything not affiliated with a church or faith can be called secular.

Non-religious people can be called atheists(无神论者；不信神的人) or agnostics(不可知论者), but to describe things, activities, or attitudes that have nothing to do with religion, you can use the word secular. Public schools are secular, but Catholic schools are not. Grocery stores are secular; a synagogue(犹太教堂) is not. If there's no religion involved, then you're in "the secular world" — as people sometimes call everything that exists outside of religion.

- agnostic
  - [Philosophy] believing that it is not possible to know whether God exists or not

- translucent
  - 半透明的 allowing light to pass through but not transparent

A translucent material lets light pass through, but objects on the other side can't be seen clearly. Think Shrinky Dinks or stained glass.

In contrast, a transparent material allows you to clearly see the objects on the other side. Frosted glass is translucent, and regular glass is transparent. But opaque glass doesn't let any light through at all, and so you can't see through it. The adjective translucent is from Latin translucens, from translucere "to shine through."

- inflate
  - 使充气；膨胀 to fill sth or become filled with gas or air

Using your own breath or an air pump, you can inflate a balloon — or anything else you need to pump air into. When you inflate something you fill it with air (or any other gas) to make it expand.

From the Latin verb inflāre, "to blow into," the word inflate appeared in English in the early 16th century. Although we usually think of the word inflate as referring to blowing air or gas into a balloon or a tire, anything that grows larger, from food prices to an egoist's self-image, can be inflated. When an item becomes scarce, its price is likely to be inflated.

- vessel
  - （盛液体的）容器，器皿 a container used for holding liquids, such as a bowl, cup, etc.
  - （人或动物的）血管，脉管；（植物的）导管 a tube that carries blood through the body of a person or an animal, or liquid through the parts of a plant
  - 大船；轮船 a large ship or boat

What do a canoe, a soda can, and your arteries have in common? Each one is a type of vessel. A vessel can be a ship, a container for holding liquids, or a tube that transports blood throughout your body.

Vessel has a number of different meanings, yet all of them relate in some way to liquids and transportation. This relationship in meaning has existed in language for a long time; the word vessel comes from the Latin word, vascellum, which also means both “vase” and “ship.” The use of the word vessel in reference to “blood vessels” came about in English during the 14th century.

- blood vessels
  - 血管

- constrict
  - （使）紧缩，缩窄to become tighter or narrower; to make sth tighter or narrower

To constrict is to squeeze uncomfortably. If your new turtleneck sweater constricts your neck, the sweater is probably too small.

When things constrict, they become narrow or make something else become narrow. A boa constrictor kills its prey when it constricts the animal's body until it can no longer breathe, and a necktie that's tied too tightly constricts your neck. In medicine, certain conditions or medications can constrict openings such as airways or blood vessels, sometimes dangerously. The Latin root is constringere, "to bind together or tie tightly."

- sensation
  - 感觉；知觉 a feeling that you get when sth affects your body

A sensation is a type of feeling, picked up by one of the five senses. Peppercorns will give you the sensation of a million tiny pinpricks on your tongue.

A sensation is something from your senses. If you lose sensation in your feet, they are numb and it's time for you to get up and move around to restore blood flow. You can call something a sensation if it is wonderful and astonishing. Your parents will tell you that you were a sensation in the school play. Everyone will want to go see the special-effects movie that critics are calling a worldwide sensation.

- expedite
  - 加快；加速 to make a process happen more quickly

To expedite something is to make it go faster or speed up the process. Expediting that package might get it to Alaska by tomorrow, instead of next Tuesday.

If someone says, "Let me expedite the process," that's probably a good thing: they're offering to speed things up. If you've ever waited in line a long time, then you must have wished someone could expedite things. A driver can expedite his commute by going in the faster car-pool lane. Whenever there's a lot of paperwork for something, it's nice to know someone who can expedite the process. When you see the word expedite, think "Make faster!"

- groundwork
  - 基础工作；准备工作 work that is done as preparation for other work that will be done later

Officials are laying the groundwork for a summit conference of world leaders.
官员们正在为世界首脑峰会做准备工作。

- nape
  - 颈背；脖颈 the back of the neck

- hazy
  - 朦胧的；薄雾蒙蒙的 not clear because of haze

- juncture
  - 特定时刻；关头 a particular point or stage in an activity or a series of events

The battle had reached a crucial juncture.
战斗已到了关键时刻。

At this juncture, I would like to make an important announcement.
此时此刻我要宣布一项重要的事情。

- kidney
  - 肾；肾脏 either of the two organs in the body that remove waste products from the blood and produce urine

- fathom
  - 理解；彻底了解；弄清真相 to understand or find an explanation for sth

It is hard to fathom the pain felt at the death of a child.
丧子之痛是难以体会的。

He couldn't fathom out what the man could possibly mean.
他弄不清这个男人的意思。
