# 05.a

- immense
  - 极大的；巨大的 extremely large or great

There is still an immense amount of work to be done.
还有非常非常多的工作要做。

The benefits are immense.
效益是极大的。

a project of immense importance
极其重要的工程

- Christianity
  - 基督教 the religion that is based on the teachings of Jesus Christ and the belief that he was the son of God

- confucianism
  - 儒教；孔子学说

- emblem
  - （代表国家或组织的）徽章，标记，图案 a design or picture that represents a country or an organization

- usurp
  - 篡夺；侵权 to take sb's position and/or power without having the right to do this

- orthodox
  - 正统信仰的；正宗教义的 following closely the traditional beliefs and practices of a religion
  - 普遍接受的；正统的；规范的 generally accepted or approved of; following generally accepted beliefs

- peculiar
  - 怪异的；奇怪的；不寻常的 strange or unusual, especially in a way that is unpleasant or worrying

- derogatory
  - 贬低的；贬义的 showing a critical attitude towards sb

- nefarious
  - 罪恶的；不道德的 criminal; immoral

- malevolent
  - 有恶意的；有坏心肠的 having or showing a desire to harm other people

- deviant
  - 不正常的；异常的；偏离常轨的 different from what most people consider to be normal and acceptable

- instruction
  - 教授；教导；传授 the act of teaching sth to sb

- heyday
  - 最为强大（或成功、繁荣）的时期 the time when sb/sth had most power or success, or was most popular

- divulge
  - 泄露，透露（秘密） to give sb information that is supposed to be secret

- preconceive
  - 预见;事先打好(主意等)

- conceive
  - 怀孕；怀胎 when a woman **conceives** or **conceives a child**, she becomes pregnant
  - 想出（主意、计划等）；想象；构想；设想 to form an idea, a plan, etc. in your mind; to imagine sth

- post
  - 职位；（尤指）要职 a job, especially an important one in a large organization

- assume
  - 呈现（外观、样子）；显露（特征）to begin to have a particular quality or appearance

This matter has assumed considerable importance.
这件事看来相当重要。

In the story the god assumes the form of an eagle.
在这个故事中神以鹰的形象出现。

- exercise
  - 行使；使用；运用 to use your power, rights or personal qualities in order to achieve sth

When she appeared in court she exercised her right to remain silent.
她出庭时行使了自己保持沉默的权利。

He was a man who exercised considerable influence over people.
他是个对别人有相当影响的人。

- lesser
  - 较小的；较少的；次要的 not as great in size, amount or importance as sth/sb else

people of lesser importance
次要人物

They were all involved to a greater or lesser degree(= some were more involved than others) .
他们或多或少都受到了牵连。

The law was designed to protect wives, and, to a lesser extent, children.
这条法律是为了保护妻子，其次是保护子女。

He was encouraged to plead guilty to the lesser offence.
有人怂恿他供认犯了那个较轻的罪行。

- uninformed
  - 知识（或信息）贫乏的；蒙昧的；无知的 having or showing a lack of knowledge or information about sth

an uninformed comment/criticism
无知的话语╱批评

The public is generally uninformed about these diseases.
大众对这些疾病普遍知之甚少。

- cataclysm
  - （突然降临的）大灾难，大灾变，大动乱 a sudden disaster or a violent event that causes change, for example a flood or a war

- wake
  - （船只航行时的）尾流，伴流，航迹 the track that a boat or ship leaves behind on the surface of the water

in the wake of sb/sth
随…之后而来；跟随在…后coming after or following sb/sth

- spell
  - 招致，意味着（通常指坏事） to have sth, usually sth bad, as a result; to mean sth, usually sth bad

- obliterate
  - 毁掉；覆盖；清除 to remove all signs of sth, either by destroying or covering it completely

- across the board
  - 全体；整体；全面 involving everyone or everything in a company, an industry, etc.

- vestige
  - 残留部分；遗迹 a small part of sth that still exists after the rest of it has stopped existing

- outright
  - 完全的；彻底的；绝对的 complete and total

- grievance
  - 不平的事；委屈；抱怨；牢骚 something that you think is unfair and that you complain or protest about

- worked up
  - 异常兴奋；十分生气 very excited or upset about sth

- exert
  - 运用；行使；施加 to use power or influence to affect sb/sth

- mindset
  - 观念模式；思维倾向 a set of attitudes or fixed ideas that sb has and that are often difficult to change

- tantric
  - relating to or involving the doctrines or principles of the Hindu or Buddhist tantras, in particular the use of mantras, meditation, yoga, and ritual. 密宗

- conjoin
  - 结合；连接；把…结成一体 to join together; to join two or more things together

- transmit

If you’re an international spy, you might transmit secret messages using a special code written in invisible ink. If you aren’t a spy, you could probably just use email. Whatever your circumstances, when you transmit information, you send.

You can transmit things from person to person or from one thing to another. The airwaves can be used to transmit radio or TV signals, for example, and computers can transmit messages over a network. This verb often describes messages or data being sent, but you can also transmit ideas, beliefs, or attitude. In addition, transmit can describe the spread of disease, like mosquitoes that can transmit disease when they bite.

- interior

Interior commonly refers to the inside of something. When house hunting you might find that the outside of the house is run down, but the interior rooms beautifully renovated.

If you design the color scheme of a room and pick our furnishings for it, you are an interior designer. If you delve into a characters feelings and emotions, you might describe what you're looking at as their interior. A place that lies far inland from a coast or border is said to lie in the interior of a country. If you talk to yourself inside your mind, you are said to be having an interior monologue.

- esoteric

Pssst... do you know the secret handshake? If you haven't been brought into the inner circle of those with special knowledge, esoteric things will remain a mystery to you.

In the olden days, achieving esoteric knowledge meant getting initiated into the mystical arts, learning secrets unknown to regular folks. Now when a subject is called esoteric it's usually something not so mystical but still hard to penetrate: financial accounting might seem esoteric for people who get easily stumped filling out their tax forms. Americans might find the sport of cricket to be esoteric, but the rules of baseball can be just as impenetrable to outsiders. The infield fly rule? Totally esoteric.

- merit
  - 值得赞扬（或奖励、钦佩）的特点；功绩；长处 a good feature that deserves praise, reward or admiration

- interplay
  - 相互影响（或作用） the way in which two or more things or people affect each other

the interplay between politics and the environment
政治与环境的相互影响

the subtle interplay of colours
色彩的相互掩映

- be/fall prey to sth
  - 被捕食；成为猎物 to be killed and eaten by another animal or bird
  - 受害；受坏影响 to be harmed or affected by sth bad

- accomplished
  - 才华高的；技艺高超的；熟练的very good at a particular thing; having a lot of skills

The adjective accomplished is useful for describing someone who's very good at something. You might use it to talk about yourself if you are an accomplished — or highly skilled — sword swallower.

An accomplished ice skater is someone who can do one of those fancy twirls on the ice, and an accomplished cupcake baker is someone you want to be friends with. Another way to use the word accomplished is to mean "successfully completed or finished." You might say, "I accomplished my goal of climbing the highest mountain east of the Mississippi River."

- developed

Anything developed has evolved, getting more advanced, complete, or useful. A fully developed plan is ready for action. A well developed idea makes a good story. A developed country has paved roads and industry.

To develop something is to work on it and improve it. Things that are developed have gone through a process, and although it’s usually a good thing, it’s not so good if a cold developed into pneumonia, for example. On the bright side, phones are extremely developed compared to just ten years ago — so are computers and many other gadgets. Developed countries have more resources, technology, and wealth than undeveloped countries.

- covetous

To be covetous of something is to want it and to be a little jealous of anyone who has it. The advertising industry’s goal is to make you covetous of the things that other people have — that way, you'll buy them.

If you feel the desire to own an object, specifically something that your friend owns, you are covetous of it. You might be covetous of her new high-speed digital camera. There is a commandment in Christianity about not feeling covetous toward your neighbor’s spouse: this could apply to a situation when you might find yourself attracted to your friend’s girlfriend, boyfriend, husband, or wife. Best to smother those feelings, if you want to keep that friendship.

- devious

Devious describes someone who tends to lie and to trick other people. Devious credit card companies lure younger and younger people into debt with offers of low interest rates and even just free t-shirts.

Devious sometimes just describes a path that is not direct, a meaning that can be traced to the Latin adjective devius "out of the way," formed from the prefix de- "off" plus via "way, road." The related English verb deviate means to do something different or unexpected, and the adjective deviant describes behavior that is not considered normal or morally correct.

- microcosm

When you think of microcosm, picture your home town inside a snow globe. The teeny tiny city is a microcosm of the one you live in. It is that place in miniature.

Microcosm can be used to describe anything that is a miniature representation of something else. Think of a specific event that symbolizes the way things always seems to go, like the way a kind act by your mom can represent the caring relationship you have with her. That weekend with your partner that started with laughter but ended in tears? That's a microcosm of the whole lousy relationship. The dance where you regretted your outfit, giggled with friends, annoyed a teacher, and missed your chance at dancing with your crush? A microcosm of high school.

- compromise

A compromise is a way of settling differences by everybody making concessions. If you want to stay out until 10 and your friend wants to stay out until midnight, 11 is a good compromise.

Compromise comes from the Latin compromissum, which means "mutual promise." It can be a noun or a verb. If you compromise with your lab partner over how to analyze the experimental data, you find the middle ground between your two ideas. Compromise can also mean to erode or diminish. If you never repair your brakes, you will compromise the safety of the car. If you cheat, you compromise your integrity.

- astray

If you go astray, you lose the path. If you went to college intending to become a doctor, but instead became interested in making violent video games, your parents might feel you have gone astray.

A stray animal is one that has gotten loose, and the adverb astray comes from this sense of wandering off from the proper place, even though it's not just for animals. If you go astray, you lose the right way, or are out of place. It can be a moral judgment: juvenile delinquents are kids who have gone astray. But it can also refer to small details. If you dress impeccably, you make sure that no thread is astray.
