# 05.b

- focal
  - 中心的；很重要的；焦点的；有焦点的 central; very important; connected with or providing a focus

- nirvana
  - 涅槃（超脱一切烦恼的境界） the state of peace and happiness that a person achieves after giving up all personal desires

- profound

When you need a word that's deeper than "deep," consider profound. A philosopher is likely to make many profound pronouncements.

Profundus literally means "deep" in Latin, and profound had the same meaning when it entered English in the 14th century. But even then, it also meant "figuratively deep" — that is, very great or intense: "The new laws have had a profound impact." Of people, it means "very knowledgeable or insightful," but sometimes when a person tries to sound profound, they're really just giving you superficial knowledge dressed up with big words.

- detached

If something is detached, it stands apart from something else. That goes for people, emotions, retinas, garages, and just about anything else that can be disconnected or uninvolved.

In the simplest sense, detached means "not attached." Which is a fine state to be in if you're talking about houses (it means they're not connected, like row houses) or your neighbor's aggressive dog (who was chomping down on your leg a few minutes ago). But if a person is emotionally detached, be careful: They're not in touch with their own emotions, or very interested in understanding yours.

- shun
  - 避开；回避；避免 to avoid sb/sth

- hit the mark
  - to achieve/​not achieve the result that you intended

- in the wake of sb/sth
  - 随…之后而来；跟随在…后 coming after or following sb/sth

- preoccupied
  - 心事重重 thinking and/or worrying continuously about sth so that you do not pay attention to other things

- Consecration
  - the act or process of officially making something holy and able to be used for religious ceremonies

- occult
  - 神秘的；玄妙的；超自然的；不可思议的 connected with magic powers and things that cannot be explained by reason or science

occult practices
神秘的习俗

- incantation
  - 咒语 special words that are spoken or sung to have a magic effect
  - 念咒语 the act of speaking or singing these words

- talisman
  - 护身符；驱邪物 an object that is thought to have magic powers and to bring good luck

A talisman is a **charm** that is supposed to **ward off** evil or illness. Your rabbit's foot key chain may be your lucky talisman. Of course, it wasn't so lucky for that rabbit.

The word talisman has been around in English since the 1630s and it has roots in both Arabic and Greek words. A talisman is usually worn around the neck but could exist in other forms, like a ring or **inscribed** stone. You can think of a talisman as a good luck charm, but people tend to take talismans more seriously — as if they are empowered with magic to ward off evil spirits.

- charm
  - （链或手镯上的）吉祥小饰物a small object worn on a chain or bracelet , that is believed to bring good luck

- ward off
  - to keep away or avert something bad

- ward
  - to guard or protect somebody or something

- inscribe
  - 在…上写（词语、名字等）；题；刻 to write or cut words, your name, etc. onto sth

In some cultures, the **foot of a rabbit** is carried as an **amulet** believed to bring good luck. This belief is held by individuals in a great number of places around the world, including Europe, China, Africa, and North and South America.

- amulet
  - 护身符，驱邪物（为祛邪防病等佩戴的珠宝）a piece of jewellery that some people wear because they think it protects them from bad luck, illness, etc.

- incense
  - 香（尤指宗教礼仪用的） a substance that produces a pleasant smell when you burn it, used particularly in religious ceremonies

