# 06.a

- stagger
  - 摇摇晃晃地走；蹒跚；踉跄 to walk with weak unsteady steps, as if you are about to fall

- yell
  - 叫喊；大喊；吼叫 to shout loudly, for example because you are angry, excited, frightened or in pain

- scream
  - （因伤痛、害怕、激动等）尖叫 to give a loud, high cry, because you are hurt, frightened, excited, etc.

- shout
  - 大声说；叫；嚷；斥责；怒骂 to say sth in a loud voice; to speak loudly/angrily to sb

- prompt
  - 促使；导致；激起 to make sb decide to do sth; to cause sth to happen

- do sb a disservice
  - 损害；伤害；危害；中伤 to do sth that harms sb and the opinion that other people have of them

- buy into something
  - ​(informal) to believe something, especially an idea that many other people believe in

- bizarre
  - 极其怪诞的；异乎寻常的 very strange or unusual

- trance
  - 昏睡状态；催眠状态 a state in which sb seems to be asleep but is aware of what is said to them, for example if they are hypnotized

- sweeping
  - 影响广泛的；大范围的；根本性的 having an important effect on a large part of sth

- blindfold
  - （用布等）蒙住…的眼睛 to cover sb's eyes with a piece of cloth or other covering so that they cannot see

- compound
  - 使加重；使恶化 to make sth bad become even worse by causing further damage or problems

- intrusion
  - 闯入；侵入 the act of entering a place which is private or where you may not be wanted
  - 侵扰性的事物；扰乱；侵犯 something that affects a situation or people's lives in a way that they do not want

- imminent
  - 即将发生的；临近的 likely to happen very soon

- immortal
  - 长生的；永世的；不朽的 that lives or lasts for ever

The word immortal can refer a supernatural being who is worshipped by others, or is a divinity or God in human form, like the gods of Greek and Roman mythology. Immortal can also mean "a person whose fame lasts for many years." If you're a sports legend or a well-known author, you may be remembered as an immortal in your field. Immortal comes from the Old French word immortalité, meaning "deathlessness."

- push around
  - to treat sb. in a domineering way, especially by making unfair demands or giving repeated orders, and generally showing no respect

- payback
  - a financial return on an investment equaling the initial capital invested 本金返还，也就是“收回本”
  - the period of time required to recover the return on an initial investment 投资的回收期
  - revenge or retaliation 报复；报应

- overpay
  - to pay more money than you owe 付款过多
  - to pay someone more money than they deserve for the work that they do 超额工资

- enthuse
  - 使热衷；使热心；使激动 to make sb feel very interested and excited

- disrupt
  - 扰乱；使中断；打乱 to make it difficult for sth to continue in the normal way

Demonstrators succeeded in disrupting the meeting.
示威者成功地扰乱了会议。

Bus services will be disrupted tomorrow because of the bridge closure.
明日公共汽车服务将因大桥停止通行而受影响。

- absolve
  - 宣告…无罪；判定…无责to state formally that sb is not guilty or responsible for sth

- constructive
  - 建设性的；有助益的；积极的 having a useful and helpful effect rather than being negative or with no purpose

constructive criticism/suggestions/advice
建设性的批评╱提议╱忠告

His work involved helping hyperactive children to use their energy in a constructive way.
他的工作包括帮助患有多动症的儿童建设性地利用他们的精力。

The government is encouraging all parties to play a constructive role in the reform process.
政府鼓励所有的政党在改革过程中发挥建设性的作用。

If you have a constructive idea about how to improve society, you should share it. Something that is constructive brings about improvement and growth.

Constructive is an adjective associated with encouraging development, physical or otherwise. It is the opposite of destructive, which means "tending to destroy." If you are a constructive member of a community, you are a positive force, interested in building up and improving your community. You’ll often hear this word used in the phrase "constructive criticism," which refers to helpful criticism intended to encourage improvement. Negative criticism, in contrast, is just intended to show a person they're wrong.

- subhuman
  - at the level of **biological development** that is considered just below humans 生物
  - not as **intelligent**, kind, etc. as you think humans should be 智力
  - relating to or displaying **behaviour** that is distastefully inferior in sophistication, moral standards, or intelligence to what is regarded as usual for human beings 行为

Subhuman words and actions aren't worthy of a human being. Stealing a toy from a child is a subhuman thing to do.

Sub- means “below” or “under.” Just as a submarine is below the surface of the ocean, something subhuman is below what is appropriate for human beings. In science fiction, creatures from another planet might be described as subhuman if their civilization is less advanced than ours. Here on Earth, subhuman is often used to describe cruel behavior. Unfortunately, humans do lots of subhuman things.

- martial arts
  - 武术；功夫（打架的技巧）

- martial
  - 战争的；好战的 connected with fighting or war

- art
  - 技能；技术；技巧 an ability or a skill that you can develop with training and practice

- detached
  - not attached to something
  - unaffected by emotional involvement or any form of bias
  - describes a building that stands on its own and is not joined to another building
  - a detached house is not joined to another house


If something is detached, it stands apart from something else.

In the simplest sense, detached means "not attached." Which is a fine state to be in if you're talking about houses (it means they're not connected, like row houses). But if a person is emotionally detached, be careful: They're not in touch with their own emotions, or very interested in understanding yours.

- indicate

To indicate means to point something out or to present evidence. If you feel sick during a car trip, you can indicate this to the driver by groaning loudly or announcing "I'm going to be sick!"

Scientists rely on data from experiments to indicate whether their theories are correct. Indicate can also describe a symptom or signal of something else. For example, a stock market recovery could indicate growing public confidence — or foolishness, depending on which expert you ask. The verb indicate comes from the noun indication, which in turn comes from the Latin word indicare, meaning "something that points out or shows."

- lust
  - 强烈欲望；享受欲 very strong desire for sth or enjoyment of sth
  - 强烈的性欲；色欲；淫欲 very strong sexual desire, especially when love is not involved

- marital
  - 婚姻的；夫妻关系的 connected with marriage or with the relationship between a husband and wife

marital difficulties/breakdown
婚姻纠葛╱破裂

- disdain
  - 鄙视；蔑视；鄙弃 to think that sb/sth is not good enough to deserve your respect

- aversion
  - 厌恶；憎恶 a strong feeling of not liking sb/sth

- quasi
  - resembling somebody or something in some ways, but not exactly the same 有点像中文的“酷似”

- chastity
  - （性方面的）忠贞；贞洁；贞操 the state of not having sex with anyone or only having sex with the person you are married to; being chaste

vows of chastity(= those taken by some priests)
（神父的）忠贞誓言

- lewd
  - 粗野下流的；淫荡的；猥亵的 referring to sex in a rude and offensive way

- wallow
  - 沉湎；放纵 to enjoy sth that causes you pleasure
  - （为保持凉爽或嬉戏在烂泥、水里）打滚，翻滚 to lie and roll about in water or mud, to keep cool or for pleasure

- a big falling out
  - 大吵

- deplorable
  - 糟透的；令人震惊的；令人愤慨的 very bad and unacceptable, often in a way that shocks people

- palpable
  - 易于察觉的；可意识到的；明显的 that is easily noticed by the mind or the senses

a palpable sense of relief
如释重负

The tension in the room was almost palpable.
屋子里的紧张气氛几乎能感觉到。

- unseemly
  - 不礼貌的；不得体的；不相宜的 not polite or suitable for a particular situation

- gorgeous
  - 非常漂亮的；美丽动人的；令人愉快的 very beautiful and attractive; giving pleasure and enjoyment

- conjure
  - 变魔术；变戏法；使…变戏法般地出现（或消失） to do clever tricks such as making things seem to appear or disappear as if by magic

- relay
  - 转发（信息、消息等） to receive and send on information, news, etc. to sb

- gauge
  - 判定，判断（尤指人的感情或态度） to make a judgement about sth, especially people's feelings or attitudes
  - （用仪器）测量to measure sth accurately using a special instrument

- proactively
  - 主动地；前摄的；有前瞻性 taking action and making changes before they need to made








