# 001

```
tsunami
```
US[tsuˈnɑmi]UK[tsuːˈnɑːmi]  
n. 大海啸；地震海啸

eg. Once appeared a nine tailed demon fox. It's mighty tails could crumble moutains and cause **tsunamis**.

```
shinobi
```
忍；忍者；甲贺忍法帖


```
Hokage
```
The **Hokage** (火影, Literally meaning: Fire Shadow) is the Kage of Konohagakure, a title bestowed on the village's leader. The Hokage is generally regarded as the strongest shinobi in the village. 

URL: http://naruto.wikia.com/wiki/Hokage


**Sama** (様【さま】) is a more respectful version for people of a higher rank than oneself or divine, toward one's guests or customers (such as a sports venue announcer addressing members of the audience), and sometimes toward people one greatly admires. It is seemingly said to be the origin word for "-san" but there is no major evidence otherwise. 

SAMA就是日语中对他人的敬称。一般翻译成"大人"或"殿下"即日语"様(さま )", 念做"SAMA",表示尊称。是日语“様（さん）”念做“SAN"的古称。当对一人叫做"SAMA"时,表示此人非常尊敬或者崇拜这位殿下。被称为"SAMA"的人则是非常值得让人尊敬或喜爱的。

**vandalise ** 
US['vændəlaɪz]UK['vændəlaɪz]  
v.故意破坏

**moron**  
US['mɔ.rɑn]UK['mɔːrɒn]  
n.笨蛋；蠢货

**geeze**
网络 天呀；表惊讶


**suck**  
US[sʌk]UK[sʌk]  
v.吮吸；吸进；吸收(水分,知识等)
网络. 烂；糟透了；烂透了

**ramen**
网络. 拉面；日本拉面；柴鱼拉面

**bummer**  
US['bʌmər]UK['bʌmə(r)]  
n.失望（或不愉快）的局面  
网络. 无赖；令人恶心的经历；真倒霉  

**pick on**  
na.与…为难；不断责骂；挑中  
网络挑剔；作弄；挑选

**prank**  
US[præŋk]UK[præŋk]  
n.恶作剧；玩笑  
v.盛装；装饰；打扮得漂漂亮亮  
网络. 胡闹；开玩笑；才是恶作剧  

**baka**  
网络. 笨蛋；
Baka (馬鹿, ばか, or バカ) means "fool; idiot", or (as an adjectival noun) "foolish" and is the most frequently used pejorative(贬损的；轻蔑的) term in the Japanese language.



## Japanese honorifics

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japanese_honorifics


**honorific** - Bing dictionary  
US[.ɑnə'rɪfɪk]UK[.ɒnə'rɪfɪk]  
n.(尤指东方语中所用的)敬语；【语】敬语；尊称

The Japanese language makes use of **honorific suffixes** when referring to others in a conversation. These suffixes are attached to the end of names, and are often gender-neutral. **Honorific suffixes** also indicate **the level of the speaker** and referred individual's relationship and are often used alongside other components of Japanese honorific speech, called keigo (敬語).

**San** (さん) is the most commonplace honorific and is **a title of respect** typically used **between equals of any age**. Although the closest analog in English are the honorifics "Mr.", "Miss", "Ms.", or "Mrs.", `-san` is almost universally added to a person's name; "`-san`" can be used in formal and informal contexts and for both genders. 

**Sama** (様【さま】) is **a more respectful version** for people of **a higher rank than oneself** or divine, toward one's guests or customers (such as a sports venue announcer addressing members of the audience), and sometimes toward **people one greatly admires**. It is seemingly said to be the origin word for "`-san`" but there is no major evidence otherwise. 

**Kun** (君【くん】) is generally used by **people of senior status** addressing or referring to **those of junior status**, by anyone addressing or it can be used when referring to men in general, **male children** or **male teenagers**, or **among male friends**. It can be used by males or females when addressing **a male to whom they are emotionally attached**, or **who they have known for a long time**. 

**Chan** (ちゃん) is a diminutive(极小的；微小的) suffix; it expresses that **the speaker** finds **a person endearing**(令人爱慕的；惹人喜爱的；讨人喜欢的). It is seemingly said to have come from a "cute" pronouncing of `-san` (in Japanese, replacing s sounds with `ch` sounds is seen as cute), although there is no evidence otherwise as this suffix has been used since the early days of ancient Japan. In general, `chan` is used for babies, young children, close friends, grandparents and sometimes female adolescents. It may also be used towards cute animals, lovers, close friends, or a youthful woman. Using chan with a superior's name is considered to be condescending and rude.

**Senpai** (先輩【せんぱい】) is used to address or refer to **one's elder colleagues in a school**, dojo(柔道馆；柔道学校), or sports club. So at school, the students in higher grades than oneself are `senpai`. Teachers are not `senpai`, but rather they are "`Sensei`." Neither are students of the same or lower grade: they are referred to as `kōhai`(后辈) . In a business environment, those with more experience are `senpai`.

**Sensei** (先生【せんせい】) (literally meaning "former-born") is used to refer to or address **teachers**, doctors, politicians, lawyers, and other authority figures. It is used to **show respect to someone** who has **achieved a certain level of mastery in an art form or some other skill**, such as accomplished novelists, musicians, artists and martial artists. In Japanese martial arts, `sensei` typically refers to someone who is the head of a dojo. As with `senpai`, `sensei` can be used not only as **a suffix**, but also as **a stand-alone title**.




