# ‘Game of Thrones’: 8 Shocking Moments From the Finale

- spoiler
  - （在电影、电视连续剧等公映前的）剧情透漏information that you are given about what is going to happen in a film/movie, television series etc. before it is shown to the public

- finale
  - （演出的）终场，结局；（音乐的）终曲，末乐章the last part of a show or a piece of music

**SPOILER** ALERT: Do not keep reading if you have not seen the **finale** of “Game of Thrones.”

Well, that’s it.

- emulate
  - 努力赶上；向…看齐 to try to do sth as well as sb else because you admire them

After the “Game of Thrones” finale, many of us will likely **emulate** Jon Snow and just retire North of the Wall.

- show runner
  - 剧集运作人；执行制片人；剧集总监

It was billed as one of the biggest events in TV history, and **showrunners** David Benioff and D. B. Weiss certainly kept plenty of surprises for the series finale.

- episode
  - （人生的）一段经历；（小说的）片段，插曲an event, a situation, or a period of time in sb's life, a novel, etc. that is important or interesting in some way
  - （电视连续剧或广播剧的）一集one part of a story that is broadcast on television or radio in several parts

Read on for some of the most shocking moments from the final **episode** of “Game of Thrones.”

## Tyrion Finds His Family

- rubble
  - 碎石；碎砖 broken stones or bricks from a building or wall that has been destroyed or damaged

- tragic
  - 悲惨的；悲痛的；可悲的 making you feel very sad, usually because sb has died or suffered a lot

- scene
  - 场面；片段；镜头 a part of a film/movie, play or book in which the action happens in one place or is of one particular type
  - （戏剧或歌剧的）场 one of the small sections that a play or an opera is divided into

- tomb
  - 坟墓；冢 a large grave, especially one built of stone above or below the ground

- entomb
  - 掩埋；埋葬 to bury or completely cover sb/sth so that they cannot get out, be seen, etc.
  - 把（尸体）葬入坟墓 to put a dead body in a tomb

- crypt
  - （尤指旧时做墓穴用的）教堂地下室 a room under the floor of a church, used especially in the past as a place for burying people

- encrypt
  - 把…加密（或编码）to put information into a special code, especially in order to prevent people from looking at it without authority

Many thought Jaime and Cersei couldn’t have possibly met their end in the **rubble** of King’s Landing. Surely, eight seasons of **character building** couldn’t **end in such a collapse**? But sure enough, in a **tragic scene**, Tyrion finds his brother and sister’s bodies **entombed** in the **crypt** under the Red Keep. He had tried to save them, but there was only so much he could do.

## Daenerys’ Plans for World Domination

As if the Seven Kingdoms weren’t enough, Daenerys declares in front of her remaining army that the war isn’t over. She intends to “free” the entire earth, including the people of Winterfell. Not if the Starks have anything to say about it, she won’t!

## Tyrion’s Hand Enough

- pin
  - 大头针 a short thin piece of stiff wire with a sharp point at one end and a round head at the other, used especially for fastening together pieces of cloth when sewing
  - 胸针；饰针 a short thin piece of stiff wire with a sharp point at one end and an item of decoration at the other, worn as jewellery
  - （有别针的）徽章 a type of badge that is fastened with a pin at the back

- toss
  - （轻轻或漫不经心地）扔，抛，掷 to throw sth lightly or carelessly

After Daenerys’ dramatic speech, Tyrion approaches her, removes his Hand of the King **pin** and dramatically **tosses** it away. He committed treason by freeing his brother, she murdered an entire city. Some relationships just can’t withstand that kind of pressure.

## Jon Kills Daenerys

- climactic
  - 非常激动人心的；高潮的；最重要的 very exciting, most important

- escapade
  - （常指危险或愚蠢的）冒险行为，恶作剧 an exciting adventure (often one that people think is dangerous or stupid)

- aside
  - （用于名词后）除…以外 used after nouns to say that except for one thing, sth is true

Speaking of relationship problems…. in arguably the most **climactic** moment in the entire series (Arya’s Night King **escapade** **aside**), Jon puts a knife through Dany’s heart. It was either that or she would probably murder him, Arya, Sansa and who knows who else? A difficult choice, but it’s probably for the best.

## Drogon Melts the Iron Throne

- titular
  - 名义上的；有名无实的；徒有虚名的 having a particular title or status but no real power or authority
  - 标题的；被用作标题的 the titular character of a book, play, film/movie, etc. is the one mentioned in the title

- technically
  - 根据确切意义地；严格按照事实地 according to the exact meaning, facts etc.
  - 在专业上；在技巧上；在技艺上 in a way that is connected with the skills needed for a particular job, sport, art, etc.

- prize
  - 奖；奖赏；奖励；奖品；奖金 an award that is given to a person who wins a competition, race, etc. or who does very good work
  - 难能可贵的事物；难以争取的重要事物 something very important or valuable that is difficult to achieve or obtain

For eight seasons, viewers wondered who would sit on the Iron Throne once the **titular** game of thrones had been won. Answer: **technically** no one because Drogon melts the Iron Throne in anger at his mother’s death. Molten iron rolling down the steps of the Throne Room seems a fitting end to the **prize** that had made so many of the show’s characters do such terrible things.

## Westeros, a Democracy?

- council
  - （尤指旧时讨论采取什么行动的）协商会议 (especially in the past) a formal meeting to discuss what action to take in a particular situation

- sensible
  - 明智的；理智的；合理的；切合实际的 able to make good judgements based on reason and experience rather than emotion; practical
  - 意识到；认识到 aware of sth

Well, almost. Sam proposes at the **council** following Dany’s murder to let the people vote on who should be king or queen. It’s a **sensible** idea, but based on how fast it gets shot down, Westeros isn’t quite ready to give anybody other than lords and ladies the vote.

## All Hail Bran the Broken

- unanimous
  - （决定或意见）一致的，一致同意的 if a decision or an opinion is unanimous, it is agreed or shared by everyone in a group 这是从“物”的角度来说
  - （团体）意见一致的，一致同意某事的 if a group of people are unanimous, they all agree about sth 这是从“人”的角度来说

- solo
  - 独自的；单独的 done by one person alone, without anyone helping them
  - 独唱的；独奏的 connected with or played as a musical solo

- banish
  - 放逐；流放；把（某人）驱逐出境 to order sb to leave a place, especially a country, as a punishment

In the end, the council **unanimously** votes Bran (or the Three-Eyed Raven, hard to tell which sometimes) the new king of the Six Kingdoms (the North is going **solo**, with Sansa getting the crown she deserves). The king’s first act is to name Tyrion Hand of the King. Maybe he’ll make a better job of it this time around? His second act: **banishing** Jon to the Night’s Watch in a very full circle moment.

## Ghost Returns

- tundra
  - 冻原，苔原（树木不生，底土常年冰冻的北极地区） the large flat Arctic regions of northern Europe, Asia and N America where no trees grow and where the soil below the surface of the ground is always frozen

In the most heartwarming moment by far, Jon is reunited with his direwolf Ghost, as well as Tormund. Together with his furry friend, and also Ghost, he rides out into the frozen **tundra** North of the Wall in a final scene which mirrors the opening sequence of the entire series. Ahhh, the memories…
